Proposal

Executive Summary


Introduction
The Eastern Institute of Technology is an educational institution based in Hawke's Bay, but with campuses all over New Zealand. Craig McDonald, the EIT Timetable Coordinator, has expressed their interest in updating the way EIT collects data across all EIT
campuses to generate timetables. This project aims to support Craig and their goal of improving the way EIT gathers timetable-related data.

EIT use Syllabus Plus, a software solution designed for educational institutions to manage timetabling, scheduling, and resource allocation. This is supplemented with data collected from Micrsoft Access forms known as TIGrS (Timetable Information Gathering System). Craig would like to replace the TIGrS Access forms with a Microsoft Excel-based solution. The goal of this project is to design and develop Excel-based applications to replicate and improve on the current functionality of the TIGrS forms.

Currently, there are 36 Access-based TIGrS forms used to collect timetable data throughout all EIT Campuses (Taradale, Tairāwhiti, Auckland Hastings...). Craig would like to streamline this into three Excel-based forms - Programs, Courses and Activities. Each form has their own set of requirements of what information needs to be collected. These forms will need to replicate the functionality of the current Access-based forms, while also enhancing their usability and reducing any administrative burdens.

This project will ultimately support Craig and EIT in generating more accurate and timely timetables through better data collection tools and practices.


Problem Statement
EIT currently rely on 36 Access-based TIGrS forms to collect information about academic scheduling requirements across all departments throughout all of EIT's campuses. The data gathered through these forms is then used to generate timetables for EIT using Syllabus Plus. Craig McDonald, the EIT Timetable Coordinator, has expressed a number of concerns with this current system.

- Microsoft Access can be limiting in terms of scalability.
- There is no native Microsoft Access app on Apple Mac.
- [Something about user navigation as per, James' notes from meeting with Craig]

These issues may be the cause of current administrative inefficiences, and could result in more problems in the future. Therefore a more user-friendly and sustainable solution is required. Specifically, Excel-based applications/forms that enhance the current TIGrS forms, resulting in a data collection system that simplifies the process, reduces administrative burden, and enhances the accuracy and usability of timetable data entry across EIT.


Solution Overview


Requirements Analysis


Techinical Approach


Timeline and Milestones


Team and Resources


Risks and Assumptions


Conclusion


References
